# Preface

This book is dedicated to my wife Balqisu. 

To all the young scientists who would benefit from this book and colleagues who 
through every small or big way helped me write this, I say a big thank you. 
@diener1996most

The motivation for writing this book comes from the dire and urgent need for 
many, especially those in developing countries to have and use a freely 
available yet sophisticate statistical software. In regions where buying a 
statistical software is often beyond the means of most persons R comes as a 
great relief. There is a huge gap between theoretical and practical knowledge of 
using statistical applications by many scientists. **R**, an open source 
statistical software offers a unique but important opportunity to bridge this 
gap.  

The focus of this book is to introduce data analysis and R to persons with very 
little knowledge in both. This step by step introduction to data analysis and R 
is deliberately organised to have very limited text but lots of practical 
examples. Readers are advised to replicate the examples as they read along, at 
least to have a feel of how these work in R.   

The book comes with a set of data in many file formats. Some are fictitious 
while a few are real data modified for public use. The datasets are freely 
available online at 
<https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1673032/Intro_R_STI_Data_14_10_2014.rar>.  

As this is essentially an introductory text, it is set up to sparingly use 
packages1 other than the R base packages that comes with the default setup. 
Occasionally however other packages are mentioned especially when it comes to 
the graphics where the "lattice" and "ggplot2" packages are used. These are kept 
to the minimum as new readers may find it confusing when they are constantly 
being asked to download and install one package after the other.  

As a general rule for this book, functions and their options are printed in 
monospaced font with opening and closing brackets. Packages are written in 
monospaced without brackets. Console output are written in monospaced font and 
with a grey background. ”Urls” and internet links are written in hypertext 
format for easy access to these sites once a reader is connected to the internet. 
Specific datasets are written in courier new font with a file extension such as 
.csv, .txt etc.

